Add commitment burndown columns (#400)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/columns/commitmentdiscountconsumedquantity.md

# Commitment Discount Consumed Quantity

Commitment Discount Consumed Quantity is the numeric value of [CommitmentDiscountUnits](#commitmentdiscountunit) that is either applied to a metered [*resource*](#glossary:resource) or [*service*](#glossary:service) or is unused over a [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod).

> CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST be present in the billing data when the provider supports *commitment-based discounts*. When CommitmentDiscountStatus is "Used", CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST be the amortized quantity of a corresponding *commitment-based discount* by a metered *resource* or *service* over the charge period. When CommitmentDiscountStatus is "Unused", CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST be the remaining, unused quantity for the corresponding *commitment-based-discount* over the charge period. CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity values MUST be less than or equal to the corresponding ConsumedQuantity value over a charge period when both values are not null and ConsumedUnit and CommitmentDiscountUnit values are equal.

Author: 1. Change "MUST be the amortized quantity" to "MUST be the PricingQuantity multiplied by the ContractedUnitPrice"?
2. Will remove

> CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST be present in the billing data when the provider supports *commitment-based discounts*. When CommitmentDiscountStatus is "Used", CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST be the amortized quantity of a corresponding *commitment-based discount* by a metered *resource* or *service* over the charge period. When CommitmentDiscountStatus is "Unused", CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST be the remaining, unused quantity for the corresponding *commitment-based-discount* over the charge period. CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity values MUST be less than or equal to the corresponding ConsumedQuantity value over a charge period when both values are not null and ConsumedUnit and CommitmentDiscountUnit values are equal.
> 
> CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST be null when [ChargeCategory](#chargecategory) is *Purchase*, [PricingCategory](#pricingcategory) is *Committed*, and [*CommitmentDiscountId*](#commitmentdiscountid) is not null.
> 
> CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST be a positive value when [ChargeCategory](#chargecategory) is *Usage*, [PricingCategory](#pricingcategory) is *Committed*, [ResourceId](#resourceid) is not null, and [CommitmentDiscountId](#commitmentdiscountid) is not null.
> 
> CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST be null in all other cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity column adheres to the following requirements:

 * CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST be present in the billing data when the provider supports *commitment-based discounts*.
 * CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST be of type Decimal and MUST conform to [Numeric Format](#numericformat) requirements.
 * CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST NOT be null if [ChargeCategory](#chargecategory) is "Usage" and [*CommitmentDiscountId*](#commitmentdiscountid) is not null, unless [ChargeClass](#chargeclass) is "Correction".
 * CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MAY be null if ChargeClass is "Correction".
 * CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST be null in all other cases.
 * CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity value MAY be negative in cases where ChargeClass is "Correction".
 * When CommitmentDiscountStatus is "Used", CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST match the amortized quantity of the corresponding *commitment-based discount* over the charge period.
 * When CommitmentDiscountStatus is "Unused", CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST match the remaining, unused quantity of the corresponding *commitment-based discount* over the charge period.
```
I hope that by rephrasing this paragraph, I've managed to capture all the requirements, but I definitely need a second pair of eyes. :)

**Notes:** 

 - The following requirement is currently excluded, as the amortization factor can vary, potentially resulting in CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity being either greater than or less than ConsumedQuantity even if the Units match.

> CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity values MUST be less than or equal to the corresponding ConsumedQuantity value over a charge period when both values are not null and ConsumedUnit and CommitmentDiscountUnit values are equal.

- The following requirement is also currently excluded, as I'm not sure if it is correct and would like to discuss it

> CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST be null when [ChargeCategory](#chargecategory) is *Purchase*, [PricingCategory](#pricingcategory) is *Committed*, and [*CommitmentDiscountId*](#commitmentdiscountid) is not null.

Author: "CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST be null when [ChargeCategory](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/400#chargecategory) is Purchase, [PricingCategory](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/400#pricingcategory) is Committed, and [CommitmentDiscountId](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/400#commitmentdiscountid) is not null." --> Denotes that the `CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity` must be null for a purchase record.  Is this the problematic clause, "[CommitmentDiscountId](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/400#commitmentdiscountid) is not null."?

Author: @ijurica Can you provide an example for this?

<img width="785" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2cac11fd-dd0f-4909-9d89-c06d7e84cb14">

> # Commitment Discount Consumed Quantity

Author: We can do this in a later revision, no strong support to go this direction right now

> Commitment Discount Consumed Quantity is the quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) that represents either a [*resource's*](#glossary:resource) consumption or complete unuse of a [*commitment discount*](#glossary:commitment-discount) over a [*row's*](#glossary:row) [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity column is only applicable to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Author: Not following about why size-flex needs to be called out.

It's not a copy of the `ConsumedQuantity`.  A size-flex resource will show the number of real hours used in the `ConsumedQuantity` and the number of size-flex hours used in the `CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity`, based on the normalization factor of that row.

> Commitment Discount Consumed Quantity is the quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) that represents either a [*resource's*](#glossary:resource) consumption or complete unuse of a [*commitment discount*](#glossary:commitment-discount) over a [*row's*](#glossary:row) [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity column is only applicable to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Reviewer 2: Exactly. Is normalization factor mentioned anywhere? Maybe I missed it.

> Commitment Discount Consumed Quantity is the quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) that represents either a [*resource's*](#glossary:resource) consumption or complete unuse of a [*commitment discount*](#glossary:commitment-discount) over a [*row's*](#glossary:row) [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity column is only applicable to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Author: Read the response to Zach around cakes vs ingredients. This was settled by the group over 2 months ago

> Commitment Discount Consumed Quantity is the quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) that represents either a [*resource's*](#glossary:resource) consumption or complete unuse of a [*commitment discount*](#glossary:commitment-discount) over a [*row's*](#glossary:row) [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity column is only applicable to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Reviewer 3: Nuance here would be this is not the amount that was committed over the whole charge period. It's how much applied to this row for the charge period. E.g. I may have a SP for 10$/hour. This row is for an hour for a particular instance that used 30 minutes. The consumed quantity would be 0.50$

> Commitment Discount Consumed Quantity is the quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) that represents either a [*resource's*](#glossary:resource) consumption or complete unuse of a [*commitment discount*](#glossary:commitment-discount) over a [*row's*](#glossary:row) [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity column is only applicable to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Reviewer 3: My suggestion was
```suggestion
Commitment Discount Consumed Quantity is the metered quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) consumed by a row covered by a [*commitment discount*](#glossary:commitmentdiscount) or the unused portion of a *commitment discount* over a [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity column only applies to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).
```

> Commitment Discount Consumed Quantity is the quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) that represents either a [*resource's*](#glossary:resource) consumption or complete unuse of a [*commitment discount*](#glossary:commitment-discount) over a [*row's*](#glossary:row) [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity column is only applicable to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Reviewer 3: I think the goal was to introduce this and in a subsequent iteration, handle normalized quantities / totals.

> Commitment Discount Consumed Quantity is the quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) that represents either a [*resource's*](#glossary:resource) consumption or complete unuse of a [*commitment discount*](#glossary:commitment-discount) over a [*row's*](#glossary:row) [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity column is only applicable to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Author: Decision was made to expose normalized-based columns in a subsequent release for general use of consumed quantities, but `CommitmentDiscountUnit` does still support normalized units now.

> Commitment Discount Consumed Quantity is the total quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) amortized to either one or more metered [*resources*](#glossary:resource) or [*services*](#glossary:service) or that is unused over a [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod) from one or more *commitment discount* purchases. The CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity column is only applicable to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Author: Used portions of above to simplify in a subsequent commit

The CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity column adheres to the following requirements:

* CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST be present in the billing data when the provider supports *commitment-based discounts*.
* CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST be of type Decimal and MUST conform to [Numeric Format](#numericformat) requirements.
* CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST be the positive, used quantity of a corresponding *commitment-based discount* by a metered *resource* or *service* over the charge period when [ChargeCategory](#chargecategory) is "Usage", [CommitmentDiscountStatus](#commitmentdiscountstatus) is "Used", and [ChargeClass](#chargeclass) is not "Correction".
* CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST be the remaining, positive, unused quantity for the corresponding *commitment-based-discount* over the charge period when *ChargeCategory* is "Usage", *CommitmentDiscountStatus* is "Unused", and *ChargeClass is not "Correction".

> * CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MAY be negative or null if *ChargeClass* is "Correction".

Author: I don't know the inter-workings around a return but I'd guess that since the return window is 7 days and billing period's close 2-3 weeks into the next month, this would *not* be a correction.  That said, it probably makes sense to change to `negative, 0, or null` too.

* CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity MUST be null in all other cases.

## Column ID

CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity

## Display Name

Commitment Discount Consumed Quantity

## Description

> The numeric, total quantity of Commitment Discount Units that is amortized to either a metered *resource* or *service* or that is unused over a *charge period* from one or more *commitment discount* purchases.

Author: Used portions of above to simplify in a subsequent commit

## Content constraints

| Constraint      | Value            |
|:----------------|:-----------------|
| Column type     | Dimension        |
| Feature level   | Conditional      |
| Allows nulls    | True             |
| Data type       | Numeric          |

> | Value format    | Any valid, non-negative, decimal value |

Author: Will change to `Any valid, non-negative, decimal value`

> | Value format    | Any valid, non-negative, decimal value |

Author: ```
| Value format    | [Numeric Format](#numericformat) |
| Number range    | Any valid decimal value |
```

# Commitment Discount Consumed Quantity

> Commitment Discount Consumed Quantity is the metered quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) consumed by a row covered by a [*commitment discount*](#glossary:commitmentdiscount) or the unused portion of a *commitment discount* over a [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity column only applies to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Author: What would you prefer?

> Commitment Discount Consumed Quantity is the metered quantity of [Commitment Discount Units](#commitmentdiscountunit) consumed by a row covered by a [*commitment discount*](#glossary:commitmentdiscount) or the unused portion of a *commitment discount* over a [*charge period*](#glossary:chargeperiod). The CommitmentDiscountConsumedQuantity column only applies to *commitment discounts* and not [*negotiated discounts*](#glossary:negotiated-discount).

Author: The unused portion is tracked by 1 row per charge period but with a null resource id. 

N rows with the used quantity (I.e. with a resource id) + 1 (potential) with the unused quantity is the total quantity eligible for that charge period
